= fluent-plugin-pghstore

== Component

=== PgHStoreOutput

Output to PostgreSQL hstore database.

Output table should have tag, time and record column.:

  CREATE TABLE #{tablename} (
    tag TEXT[],
    time TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
    record HSTORE
  );

A tag is splited by "." and stored in the TEXT[]. (Yes, postgres can handle an array!)

== Requirement

- PostgreSQL 9.0 or higher
  - hstore changed at PostgreSQL 9.0.
- postgres-contrib
- ruby-pg

=== How to Install hstore

hstore is in the contrib.

9.1 or higher:

  psql <dbname> -c "CREATE EXTENSION hstore;"

9.0:

  psql <dbname> -f ${PGHOME}/share/contrib/hstore.sql

== Configuration

Example:

  <match apache.*>
    type pghstore
    database test
    table test
    table_option CREATE INDEX time_index ON testb (time);
  </match>

=== Options

- Required
  - database
    - database name
- Optional
  - table
    - tablename.
    - If not set, use +fluentd_store+.
    - If not exists, creates automatically.
  - host
  - port
  - user
  - password
  - table_option
    - Add some SQL. This SQL is called only once when table is created from this plugin.

== Limitation

- Nested output is not allowd.
- Since using only one connection, the performance may become bad. When you meet this, use connection pooling and write patch!

== Thanks

This source code is mainly borrowed from

{fluent-plugin-datacounter}{https://rubygems.org/gems/fluent-plugin-datacounter}. Thank you for tagomoris.

== Copyright

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2012- Shirou WAKAYAMA
License::   Apache License


== ChangeLog

- 0.2.2 / 2013-04-20

0.2.1 change caused error in 9.2. 0.2.1 change was not necessary. Thank you kaz29!


- 0.2.1 / 2012-09-11

PostgreSQL 9.2 {removes hstore's => operator}{http://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/What's_new_in_PostgreSQL_9.2#Remove_hstore.27s_.3D.3E_operator}. This
plugin checks the server's version and change the operator.

But not fully tested yet.




